If you have seen the big short, you may
know Michael Bur played by Christian
Bale in the movie. He is the guy who
first saw the housing bubble in 2007. He
read the actual documents. He saw the
dog [__] FICO scores. He saw the
adjustable rate mortgages. He saw the
things that couldn't be paid and he made
a massive bet, a little early, but a
massive bet against the housing market
that paid off. Now, the real Michael Bur
is a little more complicated and he's
had a pretty interesting history since
then. People will say he's predicted a
lot of crashes that haven't come true. I
will say if you look at his funds
performance, I think I have it here. He
definitely has had a couple. He like
he's tweeted some things that are just
dead wrong. Over the past 10 years, he's
done rather well. Over the past five,
pretty well. The last three pretty
badly. And over the last year, a little
bit less than the SB500. So, in the
recent years, he has not adapted well to
our current insane market. But over 10
years, his performance does beat the S&P
500. That's Michael Bird. So, it's a
complicated ban. And he has been off of
social media for a while now. Recently
he got back on to X.com aka Twitter. His
username was Cassandra Unchanged. Unch
unchained, I'm sorry. Cassandra, again,
a reference to the uh the Greek fable of
the woman who was cursed to know the
future, but no one would believe her,
you know. So, he's getting on the nose.
And he tweeted this. This was me then.
This is me now. Oh well. It worked out.
It will work out. So, he's back and he
posted this. He's using photos from his
from I mean I guess if Christian Bill
played me in a movie I would use the
screenshots too. But it is funny because
in real life he looks more like this.
Not crazy far off but you know and he
posts this one. Sometimes we see
bubbles. Sometimes there's nothing to do
about it. Sometimes the only winning
move is not to play which is
interesting. He's kind of saying you
know the market's crazy right now. It's
it's frothy. It's a bubble but the smart
thing to do is not touch it cuz you
don't know what's going to happen. Which
is something that I would agree with.
But then right after it was revealed
that he is playing. He has made a
massive hundred million dollar bet 1
billion option against Palunteer and
Nvidia. He has he's he's putting a put
option on Palunteer and Nvidia saying
those two stocks which are insanely
frothy AI bubbly stocks will go down. So
he's playing Okay, quick update from the
trash day studio here in Japan. When I
covered this Michael breathing a few
days ago, there's been a big update. So
this part where he showed the tweet with
the frame of Christian Bale as him lying
on the floor stressed out. This is the
part of the movie of The Big Short where
he's his bet is correct, but the world
hasn't caught up to it yet and he's just
paying premiums and all his investors
want to pull their money out and he's
stressed and he's taking tubs on the
floor. There was more truth to that now
than I think I understood when we talked
about this because right after I made
this video, here's the update. He shut
down his firm,
his hedge fund, Scion Capital
Management, is shutting down after
decades. Uh because he's simply, I mean,
I'll use his words. This is his letter
he wrote. My estimation of value in
securities is not now and has not been
for some time in sync with the markets,
which is a polite way of saying he
thinks the markets are [__] crazy
right now. And his ability to judge
value and make bets in this market is
not there.
And and you know, much like Doug,
Michael Murray's shorts are not working.
So, he's shutting it down. He's
completely shutting it down. He's
passing it on to his associate, Phil
Clifton, who I looked at his social
media. Phil Clifton is anti- AI bubble,
too. So, same kind of thing. But, so,
yeah, Michael Bur's out. I wanted to
give the update. I mean, I think his his
points are relevant. I think he may end
up be being proven right, but he, unlike
last time, is not willing to stomach the
short-term stress and pain and emails
and anger from running a hedge fund when
he has a bet that is opposite the
prevailing market trend, which is
interesting. That's the update. Now,
Palunteer especially is a company that
like what's the PE ratio of Palunteer?
It's It's like disgusting. It's 448.
No, it's even higher, dude. It's
disgusting. Again, that's the ratio of
how much the company is worth to how
much it actually makes. For a normal
mature company, that's like 10 to 20.
For a high growth tech company, it's
like 30 to 40. For Palanteer, it's 569.
They just don't make any money for their
valuation. So, they have to have the
most absurd growth to make this
justified. They have to be the most
insanely high growth company imaginable.
Not necessarily impossible, but you
know, pretty crazy. So, he's betting
against it. And I barely covered this
because you like this that's his bet.
There could be some truth to it. He's
had good performance overall. Maybe
it'll work out, but it's not that big a
deal. But then Michael Bur came out with
a new tweet that I think is actually
really interesting and it was this one
from yesterday. Okay. And it's about
depreciation. And I want to go through
it like kind of line by line and make
sure you understand it cuz I I agree
with this. Understanding depreciation by
extending useful life of assets
artificially boosts earnings. One of the
more common frauds of the modern era. So
this is part of he's like he's like
openly declared war against basically
Nvidia Palunteer and the entire AI
bubble. And after not tweeting for a
long long time for being completely off
social media, he's now back with a
massive bet and talking. Massively
ramping capex through purchase of Nvidia
chip servers on a 2 three-year product
cycle should not result in the extension
of useful lives of compute equipment.
This is exactly what all hyperscalers
have done. By my estimates, they will
understate depreciation by 176 billion
by 2628. Okay, now let me explain what
the he's talking about. Okay, you have a
hot dog stand. First, I need to explain
what depreciation is. What would a hot
dog stand make it a year? Let's do 20K.
Okay, 20K. That's what you made on your
hot dog stand this year. All right, you
sold enough hot dogs to do that. Now,
let's say this stand costs 30K. So, in
year 1, if you subtract the cost of your
stand, let's say your cost of doing
business, the cost of like making the
dogs, your time, whatever, if you had an
employee, the day-to-day cost of doing
business is like $5,000. So, normally
you'd make 15K profit, but you had to
buy the stand. So, that was 30K. So, you
lost $15,000. But in a normal year, like
next year, you're really profitable.
Okay? You're doing pretty well. So what
you want to do is spread the cost of
this big fixed item over a number of
years. That's why you that's why they
they do depreciation. If you put all
this cost in the first year where it
happens, it makes your business look
really bad when it's actually not that
bad. So you spread the cost over a
number of years. An accounting trick. It
makes sense. So what you're supposed to
do is you spread the cost over what is
called the useful life of the item. So
you might spread this 30k thing over how
long is it going to last? 10 years. 10
years for this hot dog truck. So instead
of $30,000 minus this year, it's minus
3,000. Now your business looks pretty
good. 12k profit. And every year it's
-3us 3,000 - 3,000,000. That's just the
general idea. Okay. With GPUs, what
Michael Bur is saying is that they have
lied about how long they will last. He's
saying that these companies have bought
GPUs and on their books they are
depreciating them over more years than
they will actually last to make this
number smaller and make the profit seem
good. That's the idea and he's pointing
to a really re a real example. This is
how long different companies have been
saying on their books that the that the
compute will last that the GPU spend
will last. In 2020 they said it would
last 3 years at Meta. Now they say 5 and
a half. Now, why did that change? Why
did suddenly they say the GPUs are going
to last longer and longer and longer?
And it's because when they make these
changes, they get to drastically
increase the amount of profit on their
books that year. It lowers the
depreciation costs. And and what he's
noticing that the trend that Michael Bur
is noticing is that all these companies
all at once are all increasing their
lifespans. They're going from three to
four to four and a half to five, three
to four to six, five to six, three,
four, six, four, five, six, and and I,
you know, I have a specific example
here. Like these are like stories that
go under reportported. You don't even
see them. Here's one from Meta. This is
in February of this year. Meta
accounting move on AI servers to boost
profit this year. Totally under
reportported story. Totally undisussed.
And yet every 6 months, every every 8
months, you see big tech companies
changing their accounting to make the
things last longer. Now, what I'll say
is it's possible they do. It's quite
possible that you can get a more of a
useful shelf life out of a GPU than we
thought. Maybe an old GPU can be useful
and make money for 6 years. But if it
can't,
like Michael Bur is saying, if it only
lasts two or three and then you have to
buy a new one, if they get old or if
they're not useful, people don't want to
buy them or rent them, you've
drastically overstated your profit in
those years and it's going to be a big
correction. And I want to show you some
examples that lean into that. First of
all, there was a joke from Jensen Wong,
which is a bad idea. Jensen Wong joked
and said, "Hey, once the new GPUs come
out, the old ones are, you can't even
give them away."
All these companies are trying to claim
that these old GPUs they spent all this
money on are still useful and good and
they can sell them and they can sell the
compute and it's valuable and then and
then Nvidia's like, "Yeah, who cares
about the old ones? You got to get the
new one." So like this is directly
contradictory but also the proof is
they're not able to sell these old GPU
like let's say you're like Oracle right
you buy a bunch of GPUs you build a data
center and then you rent out using that
to AI companies they are finding that
they cannot get they can't charge the
same price on these old GPUs the prices
keep going down and down and down and
down and down and this is only for you
know things that are a few years old but
after five or six are they really going
to be making enough money to justify
their initial cost. No, that's what
Michael Bur is saying. I think this is
like one of his best points. I think
this is one of the like anyone can say
that things seem frothy and overvalued.
I see it all the time like everyone
knows that we're in like a crazy frothy
market. Like valuations are extreme, but
you never know when that's going to
going to change. But this is like him
looking at hard data and going they are
lying in the accounting to make it seem
more profitable than it is. And in fact,
these GPUs are like a massive massive
expense that's only going to last you a
few years before you have to buy a new
one with another few hundred billion.
So, it's a real issue. It's like a real
I think it's a smart take. And I thought
this tweet was pretty good, which
basically said like this is kind of how
I think about it. A nervous that some
large percent of the economy is held up
by GPU depreciation napkin math. Like it
does feel like that's what it feels
like. It feels like these companies are
not being like, "Okay, this is the
honest mathematical how long they're
going to last and how much we can make
on them and let's be real." It's kind of
like eh, let's say six.
Let's say four. Ah, let's go five. Let's
go. like they just keep, you know what
I'm saying? It feels very napkin math.
And I think this is like a a sharp
insight by Bur. Whatever you think about
other things he's done. Now, whether or
not his [__] puts will pay off, I have
no idea. I think betting against Nvidia
or Palunteer have both been really bad
decisions. Same thing as Carvana. I know
that Carvana is a fraud company. I know
that Carvana is giving car loans that
will not get paid back. I know that
Carvana is overpaying for used cars in a
way that that will punish them
financially, but I don't know when it
becomes real. I have no idea. And so you
can't you can't bet against it. And
again, there's other articles that cover
this. Like the AI bets that fueled big
tech surge now threaten rich profits
because the bills are coming due.
Depreciation expenses are expected to
rise, putting pressure on companies to
show bigger returns in their investment
with some investors warning of a
potential earnings headwind if AI
investments don't lead to significant
revenue and profitability growth. And
that's with them kind of lying about how
long they'll last. Why would he short
Nvidia off of this? Wouldn't Nvidia win
from this cuz the bets would we need to
keep buying GPUs? I think he's going to
the heart of the problem. He's basically
saying once these companies and their
investors realize that they have to keep
buying hundreds of billions of Nvidia
GPUs all the time and they're not
lasting as long as they thought, they're
going to stop doing it and it'll all hit
Nvidia at once. That that's his take on
it. But I don't want to over be like,
"This guy's the big short genius. He
truly is uh Christian Bale in real life
and he's everything's going to be
right." I I don't want to say that. But
I do want to say this depreciation
thing, this is real. They have they
continually are changing their
depreciation and it makes their profits
look good in the short term. Uh one more
thing I want to say where where was uh
oh yeah his his beef with Alex Karp of
Palunteer. Alex Karp lost the CEO of
Palanteer lost his [__] mind. Like I
mean like go online. I mean I guess
people here have gone on X like just
forget any you don't need to know
anything else. Just look at like who
hates Palanteer and look who hates me
and then judge us by that standard. What
should our market cap be based on that
standard?
>> That's not what it's about. I I hate I
hate I hate this [__] We will turn like
what your company is worth into a
mission statement political issue or
like what what your beliefs are. It's
about how much money you make. It's
math.
It's like vibes based valuation, dude.
It's about profit. Money in, money out.
It's just an insane valuation. People
are shorting it because it is a risk to
short it. Of course, we're in a crazy
market, but they're shorting it because
it doesn't make sense. But that's not
what I'm looking for. He has one more
talking about Michael Bur civically. I
think I have it right here.
>> Uh if you want to do the personal
version, I'm like this uh dyslexic
formerly and I believe currently still
left of center who actually sticks up
for progressive values which triggers
you know TDS uh loving people because I
think the Democrats aren't no longer
progressive. And then the company is
built in a truly generous unique way
which would only be possible in America.
And
>> it triggers people with Trump
derangement syndrome cuz he's too
progressive. What are you talking about?
I mean, the company is just AI services
for the military. It's not What are we
What is What Why is this so political? I
don't I I didn't know this guy was so
political. He sells AI services to the
military. The idea that Michael Bur is
shorting your stock because it's because
you're anti-woke
is crazy. You can make the argument that
you're such a high growth company that
the crazy valuation is worth it. You can
make that argument. That's a fair
argument. You can say, "Look, they don't
understand that we are on such a rocket
ship of growth that we're going to grow
into this valuation." I think it's it's
so extended and so extreme that I think
that's tough because your main client is
the government. But okay, fine. But but
what you to say that it's like it's just
it's just FUD and hater. I hate that
whole line of thought. that's so
pervasive in our country of like anyone
who points out a flaw in your line of
thinking or what you're doing is a [__]
hater. It's all they're all they're just
FUD. It's just all because of uh
they have no points and they you know
it's I find that so frustrating
>> analysts
>> the people who piled in uh to Palunteer
were people investing their own money
often people who are not in the investor
class non-experts and even till today
the experts sit on the sideline and say
hey this can't be true while the average
American
>> but this is the same argument you could
have made about GameStop and AMC bro
that's not an argument for like why your
company is worth this much that you
convinced a bunch of people to throw
their who are not real investors is like
it's like a it's like you're trying to
do you're doing the apes together
strong.
>> Why do they have to go after us? And
I'll tell you what though, it's crazy
motivating because I'll tell you why the
short sellers are constantly getting
screwed by Palanteer because every time
they short us, we just are like tripling
down on getting the better numbers and
part honestly to make them poorer. I
can't listen to a [__] billionaire tell
me how bullied he is by people thinking
he might be overvalued. That's so this
is so [__] ridiculous. And again,
man, that makes me question cuz again
adjusted free cash flow. What did you
adjust? You I hate this this
prepundonderance of adjusted IBIDA and
adjusted cash flow. And it's like just
show me your actual free cash flow. Show
me what you actually made at the end of
the day. I hate I hate all this
accounting tricks people are using to be
like yeah we grew our adjusted that's
why I wear the IBIDA hat. One of the big
things about IBIDA is the D
depreciation. Okay, it's kind of back to
what Michael Bur is saying, which is
that if you report only IBIDA, you are
basically hiding or ignoring all of your
costs, all your big asset costs. You
know, if you if you buy a factory or you
buy a [__] new GPU or it's I'm not
wearing the hat now, but like that's why
I wear that hat.
>> But instead, they ask, "Does it work in
theory?" The theoreticians,
you have to ask, "How often have you
been right?" And Palanteer is about
pragmatic decisions that create unfair
advantages for America and its allies.
>> I'll be honest with you, I have not
listened to this guy speak on extended
length before. I I I this makes me want
to short Palunteer.
This is crazy. He hasn't mentioned the
fundamentals of the business one [__]
time. What are you talking about? I'm
not going to do it. I You shouldn't, by
the way. You shouldn't. in this economy,
in this market, and what's going on. I
think puts on high-flying companies are
a [__] insane risk.
>> Being short is is a very difficult place
to be because you can lose everything,
right? You can drive these people into
the ground. Michael Bur,
>> that's so funny. He's so mad. He's so
[__] mad, dude. It shouldn't it
shouldn't matter.
>> This is like Michael Phelps like score
like Michael Jordan. Like there are no
scores like this there. and and 121
growth off of almost a 1.5 run rate in
US commercial and a 77 77% growth in the
US and an aggregate off of an aggregate
base of of $4.5 billion. By the way, I
predicted we'd get here. So, you know,
it's like I if you want to short that,
be my guest. You go ahead. We're just
going to go do our things. I mean, look,
I'll tell you there's a tale of
>> I want to I want I want to explain
really quickly. I want to explain really
quickly. First of all, the growth rates
he's talking about are not enough even
to justify the valuation. I I think
people don't understand the stock market
enough and I think this is I think this
is um I'm not saying it's going down.
I'm just saying like I'm a math POB.
There's a difference between what
something is worth and what something
it's valued at. Something can be good
and still be overvalued. And that is why
these arguments I find to be a little
bit I don't know specious. It's the idea
that like if if I hold a rare mint first
edition Charizard in front of you and I
go, "Is this valuable? Is this a good
card?" You would go, "Of course." Would
you buy it for $1,000? Of course. Would
you buy it for $200,000? Of course. But
would you buy it for $100 million?
Okay. The card can still be good. It
could it can still be a great card. It
could still maybe be growing over time.
like the value can be going up, but
you're not going to buy it for $20
million. You know, when you're worth 500
times what you're making, what your
actual earnings are, it sends a a signal
that you have to grow even more than
you're growing now for a very long time
to even catch up to be a more reasonable
valuation. I'm not certain that he'll do
that. I'm not saying it's impossible,
but he needs to spend more time talking
about that. I would Here's a prop
palanceer case. We get World War II.
World War II comes along, the government
is just shoveling money to Palunteer.
They're getting massive, massive
contracts, not just from America, but
from all Western NATO, all of NATO.
Well, that's a lot of money, man. That
could probably justify the valuation.
That's your bet. So, really, I don't
know if it's very helpful to bet on pal.
You're basically betting on war 3. I
don't know why these newspapers are
running helping Mandani win. I don't
know why we can't have honest
discussions about our future. I don't
know why we have to allow fentanyl
attack, but it's almost always sympathy
for the expert that doesn't need it. The
short seller that has some ridiculous
reason for doing something against I
mean most of GDP growth in this country
is because of AI. The real question is
>> this tangent into momi and fentinil when
to avoid talking about your company.
>> I don't know bro there's smoke there's
fire man this [__] feels sus. the words
of the late great uh red crew mate. This
[__] feels sus.